# Project Description

This project is a replication of a Single Cell RNA-seq Anlaysis done on pancreatic cells from human and mice samples by Baron et. al (2016)

Reference:
Baron, M., Veres, A., Wolock, S. L., Faust, A. L., Gaujoux, R., Vetere, A., Ryu, J. H., Wagner, B. K., Shen-Orr, S. S., Klein, A. M., Melton, D. A., & Yanai, I. (2016). A Single-Cell Transcriptomic Map of the Human and Mouse Pancreas Reveals Inter- and Intra-cell Population Structure. Cell systems, 3(4):346–360.e4. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cels.2016.08.011


# Contributors

Nitsueh Kebere - Data curator nkebere@bu.edu

Xinyu Sun - Programmer xinyusun@bu.edu

Will Mischler - Analyst mischler@bu.edu

Reva Shenwai - Biologist reva96@bu.edu


# Repository Contents

This repository contains all the scripts and packages used in our single cell RNA-seq analysis.

# Installation 

To successfully perfom this analysis clone this repository and install the requried packages provided in the packages-used folder 

# Scripts/codes description

The counts-Data-Curator folder has shell scripts that calculate the number of reads per distinct barcode for a FASTQ file containing CB+UMI raw sequence. This folder also contains the outputs generated from the count shell scripts 

The whitelist-Data-Curator folder contains whitelist.R script that generated the whitelsit barodes for three of the libraries.
It also has the generated barcode whitelists for three of the libraries 

The salmon-Data-curator folder contains all scripts needed to run salmon alevin. It contains shell scripts to build salmon index for reference transcriptome, script to create transcript to gene mapping file, and shell script to submit a salmon alevin job. Additionally, there is a merge_matrix.py file that merges the UMI count matrix generated by salmon for the three libraries into one UMI count matrix 

The progarammer_code.R script has code that filters out low quality cells, low varience genes, and code that generates clusters of cell type subpopulations

The analyst_code.R script has code that generates marker genes for clusters, and code that generates a visualization of the clustered cells

